#summary Frequently Asked Questions
#labels Featured

*Why do I need the Processing IDE?*

 You don't. To run the trunk version of code_swarm you only need java and ant.

 The original code_swarm program was written in Processing and that's the form it was in when it was open sourced. We are working on a version that does not rely on the Processing IDE to be run. Once that is ready we will stop support and distribution of the old version.

*Why is the non-Processing version so unusable?*

 We're working on it.

*I get a compiler error about !PriorityQueue.*

 Linux: Upgrade your JDK to 1.5 or later.

 Mac OS X: Upgrade your Processing version to 0142 or later, at the bottom of [http://processing.org/download/index.html this page].

 Windows: If you downloaded Processing without Java, upgrade your JDK to 1.5 or later. If you downloaded Processing with Java, upgrade to Processing 0142 or later, at the bottom of [http://processing.org/download/index.html this page]. 

*I get a stack dump when I try to load a moderate- to large-sized XML file. What's going on?*

 You need more heap memory. Do this in Processing preferences or by setting {{{-Xmx1000m}}} (one GB) as a VM argument (see run.sh)

*Why is there little to no documentation?*

 We're working on it.

*I've made a video using your software. Are there any restrictions on it?*

 Your videos are yours. However we would appreciate it if you add appropriate credits and link back to the project whenever you distribute your videos.

*Is code_swarm open source?*

 Yes, under the [http://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl.html GNU General Public License version 3].

*How can I contribute?*

 You will need to provide a Google account or Gmail address. You can either send it to our [http://groups.google.com/group/codeswarm Google Group] or email Michael directly. Once you are added as a committer, you can make changes to the repository.