#summary How to build Java code_swarm in different environments.
#labels Phase-Implementation

= Introduction =

This guide explains how to setup your development environment to build the binary (ie. jar) version of code_swarm from Java sources.

== Target audience ==
Explanations require at least an understanding of computing and of your Operating System, even if no Java skills are needed.

== Target environment ==
For now on, Linux Ubuntu 8.04 and Windows XP are described, but would not be difficult to adapt for other Linux/Unix systems, like for Mac.

= Setting up the environment =

You will need the "Ant" software building tool, and the Java SDK from sun _(no idea if other SDK could do the job)_.

== Linux ==
_This guide is written with a Debian based Linux, Ubuntu 8.04._ It would requires some minor adaptation to use on other distribution (other packaging systems).

 * install ant with the following command (or with your favorite graphical package manager)
 sudo apt-get install ant
 * install sun-java-jdk 1.5 or 1.6 following your distribution recommendation
 sudo apt-get install sun-java6-jdk
 * configure the Java SDK to specify the new installation path, for instance on Ubuntu :
 sudo update-java-alternatives -s java-6-sun

See http://doc.ubuntu-fr.org/java

== Windows ==
This guide as been tested with Windows XP SP3.

 * download ant for all platforms at http://ant.apache.org/bindownload.cgi
 * unpack it where you want it to be installed, and add the location of its binaries to the the "PATH" environment variable. For instance, add at the end :
 "C:\apache-ant-1.7.0\bin;" 
 * download Sun Java SDK at http://java.sun.com/javase/downloads/index.jsp
 * install it and add the "javac" Java compiler to the PATH :
 "C:\Program Files\Java\jdk1.6.0_06\bin;"
 * then create a new environment variable called JAVA_HOME and set its paht to
 "C:\Program Files\Java\jdk1.6.0_06;"

= Getting the sources =

code_swarm sources are under a Google Code Subversion repository (svn). They can simply be browsed by your current web browser, but you would prefer a more dedicated tool to get the full source tree and maintain it up to date.

See [http://subversion.tigris.org/ Subversion homepage on tigris] for all appropriate tools and documents. I would recommend "TortoiseSVN" for Windows users, native "Subversion" package would do for Unix-like users.

See the "Source" tab for further instruction on where to browse and checkout the sources.

= Building the sources =

Quick build :
 * Open a terminal/a command line shell, change directory to the root of the code_swarm source folder, and to launch the build, type
 ant
 * Then to launch code_swarm use 
 ant run
 _Notice that you can type only the second command to do both in once_

Alternatively, you can just try the "run.sh" or "run.bat" scripts to get it done in once, but need to rebuild manually typing "ant" if you modify sources

Other commands :
 * "ant all" will also generate the Javadoc HTML sources documentation
 * "ant clean" will delete all intermediate and binary files

= See also =
 * FAQ
 * GeneralPlan